<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
          xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
          xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0"
          epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0">
        <head>
          <title></title>
          <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html charset=utf-8"/>
          <meta name="robots" content="index,follow"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheets/application.css"/>
        </head>
        <body>
      
<h1>A Nonprofit</h1>

    
<!-- START: video:video-inline#nonprofitvid; -->

      <section class="video video--16x9 figure__large figure__large__controls--no figure__inline">
        <video id="nonprofitvid" autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop" muted="muted" webkit-playsinline="webkit-playsinline" playsinline="playsinline">
          <source src="../media/vid6.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
          
          <p class="media__fallback media__fallback__video media__fallback--text">Your device does not support the HTML5 video API.</p>
        </video>
        
      </section>
    
<!-- END: video:video-inline#nonprofitvid; -->
<p>Triple Canopy offers most of its resources freely, and the philosophy is one of open access. The magazine's now 8 full-time staff members are funded entirely by donations and grants. The organization has established its identity within a sphere of boutique arts and theory publishers, drawing funding from largely the same pools.</p>
<p>And digital publishing has not taken off in this sphere: Waldorf reflects that &quot;the ecosystem of print is still a very strong trend [...] When will publishers boutique arts and theory become engaged in publishing digitally? How will those groups of people feel incentivized?&quot; There is a feeling, especially now, that the open access the Internet promised still comes with deep contradictions, distractions, and incorporation. Print still contains a refuge of being offline, pure, and controlled. The act of publishing digitally is resource-intensive for those who don't come from a web design background, and the aspects of digital publishing that are experimental remain on the fringe, almost by their existence fighting the prevailing conventions of the web. Ironically, digital publishing is almost more bound to conventions than print, because digital articles are built on the marketing structure of the web, subject to SEO and other considerations.</p>
<p>But Triple Canopy has emerged as a successful organization—both on and offline—thanks to its digital presence. Its publications are all open access thanks to the low cost of digital publishing, and its ethos has always been one of the network, enabling it to thread together conversations between critically engaged people. I'm brought back to how tools structure thought—they alternately resist and enable our efforts to subvert them, requiring us to shape them as we are shaped by them. The questioning attitude of Triple Canopy, its creative-critical innovations, still remain an example for how arts organizations and collectives can preserve their identity on—even through—the Internet; viewing the Internet as a metaphor for networked thought.</p>
<h2>Final notes on format</h2>
<p>This essay was written in B-ber, Triple Canopy's publishing tool. In compiling and presenting it online, I've tried to connect it to my own aspirations for digital publishing and the experimental Internet, extending (and fighting) standard formats.</p>
<script type="application/javascript" src="../javascripts/application.js"></script><script type="application/javascript">window.bber = window.bber || {}; window.bber.env = 'reader';</script></body></html>