<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
          xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
          xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0"
          epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0">
        <head>
          <title></title>
          <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html charset=utf-8"/>
          <meta name="robots" content="index,follow"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheets/application.css"/>
        </head>
        <body>
      
<!-- START: section:chapter#theory-essay_introduction; _markdown/Introduction.md:5 -->
<section id="theory-essay_introduction" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" class="bodymatter chapter"><h1>Digitizing the Organization</h1>

    
<!-- START: video:video-inline#digitizing1; -->

      <section class="video video--16x9 figure__large figure__large__controls--no figure__inline">
        <video id="digitizing1" autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop" muted="muted" webkit-playsinline="webkit-playsinline" playsinline="playsinline">
          <source src="../media/vid3.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
          
          <p class="media__fallback media__fallback__video media__fallback--text">Your device does not support the HTML5 video API.</p>
        </video>
        
      </section>
    
<!-- END: video:video-inline#digitizing1; -->
<p>The paradigm of publishing on the Internet contains a dualism. On the one hand, we encounter digital utopianism; the capacity for people to interface with each other from any point in the world, to experiment with anonymity and self-reinvention, potentially to achieve a greater agency. On the other, we see the very nature of the Internet inscribed with surveillance technology, the mark of corporatization, resource extraction, and late capitalism. This paper traces the dual legacy of the Internet's capacity for open-access and change with the trend to become another locus of corporatization and standardization, using the online magazine Triple Canopy as a case study. How can arts organizations, creative enterprises, and digital publications exist within the contemporary Internet, and how have they evolved concurrently with the Internet's development?</p>
<h2>On Technology</h2>
<p>Triple Canopy cofounder, Caleb Waldorf, writes in &quot;<a href="https://canopycanopycanopy.com/contents/working-on-our-thoughts?schema:keywords=tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_cities,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_cities,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_cities,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_publishing,tc:tag_cities">Working on Our Thoughts</a>,&quot; about how digital tools shape texts. But even before the digital, Nietzsche mentioned in 1882 that “Our writing tools are also working on our thoughts.&quot; In turn, digital tools, and the code we use to write them, structure digital thought. In his pre-Internet essay <em>The Question Concerning Technology</em>, Martin Heidegger suggests a view of technology as a &quot;mode of questioning&quot; rather than simply a tool.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>It is technology itself that makes the demand on us to think in another way what is usually understood by &quot;essence.&quot; [...] If we inquire step by step into what technology, represented as means, actually is, then we shall arrive at revealing. The possibility of all productive manufacturing lies in revealing. (Heidegger, <em>The Question Concerning Technology</em>)</p>
</blockquote>
<p>The &quot;productive manufacturing&quot; I explore here is the webpage. Heidegger's concept of &quot;revealing&quot; applies in multiple layers to tools that are themselves intended to &quot;reveal&quot; something—to be containers for discursive and creative thought. Digital publishing reveals something about &quot;revealing&quot; itself: in its structure, the webpage reveals the possibilities and dangers of networked information. The power structures enabled and disseminated by the Internet, the networked individualism and performativity pervading social media—are all embedded within the common framework of the webpage.</p>
<p>Here, I investigate alternative approaches to constructing webpages, specifically as explored by <em>Triple Canopy</em>, and how they can structure an organization as a radical collective. I begin by investigating the larger environment of the Internet, discussing the tensions inherent in digital publishing. I continue with an investigation of Triple Canopy's publishing frameworks, discussing how they developed in response to a changing Internet. I conclude by considering Triple Canopy's relationship with the Internet itself, and how it persists as an organization both on- and offline.</p>
</section>
<!-- END: section:exit#theory-essay_introduction -->
<script type="application/javascript" src="../javascripts/application.js"></script><script type="application/javascript">window.bber = window.bber || {}; window.bber.env = 'reader';</script></body></html>