<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
          xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
          xmlns:ibooks="http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0"
          epub:prefix="ibooks: http://vocabulary.itunes.apple.com/rdf/ibooks/vocabulary-extensions-1.0">
        <head>
          <title></title>
          <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html charset=utf-8"/>
          <meta name="robots" content="index,follow"/>
          <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../stylesheets/application.css"/>
        </head>
        <body>
      
<h1>Expanding Offline</h1>

    
<!-- START: video:video-inline#expandedvid; -->

      <section class="video video--16x9 figure__large figure__large__controls--no figure__inline">
        <video id="expandedvid" autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop" muted="muted" webkit-playsinline="webkit-playsinline" playsinline="playsinline">
          <source src="../media/vid8.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
          
          <p class="media__fallback media__fallback__video media__fallback--text">Your device does not support the HTML5 video API.</p>
        </video>
        
      </section>
    
<!-- END: video:video-inline#expandedvid; -->
<p>Triple Canopy has always been informed by an ethos of interdisciplinary and genre-bending work. This has been accompanied by its existence as a digital magazine, but also as an organization that creates offline networks. Zach Wilks shared that originally, the organization pitched in-depth formatting, online games, and experimental presentation. But this intensive digital practice is so resource-intensive and time-consuming that the editorial process at Triple Canopy has moved to long-form essays. In the past decade, innovations at the New York Times and larger organizations have invested in &quot;formal tinkering&quot; that &quot;far outpaced [Triple Canopy] resource-wise.&quot; But the magazine's flexibility has allowed it to continue fulfilling its mission to present genre-bending work from critically engaged artists.</p>
<h2>Events</h2>
<p>Zach thinks of Triple Canopy in two prongs: more than a digital magazine, they view it as an &quot;arts nonprofit that publishes a magazine and organizes public programs.&quot; In fact, the offline aspects of Triple Canopy's existence are essential to its concept, serving to articulate the magazine's concerns within a larger umbrella of in-person critical conversations. The magazine uses performance events in a similar way as its digital articles, featuring interviews, lectures, and performances.</p>
<p>The organization doesn't publish &quot;editions,&quot; instead releasing individual articles on a rolling schedule. In place of an annual release, they have an annual multi-day symposium which they refer to as an offline issue of the magazine. The lectures and performances have correspondences to the organization's approach. One performance-lecture this year, &quot;<a href="https://canopycanopycanopy.com/contents/island-of-the-idols?q=island%20of%20the%20idols">Island of the Idols</a>,&quot; integrated media clips of Survivor with musings on Indigeneity and myth-making, capturing an artistic and discursive style common to Triple Canopy's digital essays. The symposium also featured reflections on Marxism and popular culture, Adorno's philosophy, and other aspects of media in contemporary life. Past Symposiums have also featured <a href="https://canopycanopycanopy.com/contents/crowd-control?q=jeremy%20toussaint-baptiste">live performances</a> by Jeremy Toussaint-Baptiste in which they spoke via an LRAD (a military &quot;sound cannon&quot;), danced, and reflected critically. This performance would later be recast as a digital publication on Triple Canopy's website.</p>
<h2>Longer Conversations</h2>
<p>Zach shares that rather than principally its digital identity, Triple Canopy is unique in the landscape as &quot;offering an intensive, collaborative framework for artists and writers to produce work. [...] More often than not people are happy with the results, and the final is very different from the first draft.&quot; So while the process is still enabled by the magazine's digital format, it's through using the digital subversively that enables Triple Canopy's offline existence.</p>
<p>The fact that Triple Canopy is digital allows it to be quite cost-effective within publishing, and group articles outside of traditional issue formats and deadlines. Publications can be released when ready, and this has led to longer germination periods in which editors can work with artists to present long-form writing that goes through many drafts. Jeremy Toussaint-Baptiste has benefited from a yearslong relationship with Triple Canopy, from initial published articles to more involved fellowships.</p>
<p>A large part of Triple Canopy's thought process involves helping artists translate their artwork into its own format of critical digital essays. The act of translating a performance or piece into a digital essay involves considering the potentialities of a work's expression, making it into another thing entirely. Jeremy's piece &quot;<a href="https://canopycanopycanopy.com/contents/siren-mode?q=siren%20mode">Siren Mode</a>&quot; ends with a series of GIFs that include performance documentation, but use an increasingly chaotic collage to represent the arc of a sonic piece without using sound at all. Jeremy says, &quot;I didn't want the piece that lived online to recreate a live experience, and it is a sonic performance, so thinking about a way to take the gestures and audio to leave space for imagination.&quot;</p>
<p>Working as an artist in the digital space also involves many conversations about resisting the Internet, just as the magazine itself has grappled with in its publishing formats. Jeremy reflects on an effort to create a public-facing piece that explicitly hides certain aspects of the underlying artistic project. For Jeremy:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>The editors approach the Internet as a thing, a thing to be experimented with. That gives me an exciting chance to think through what does, for someone who's anti-internet and anti-tech—what does it mean to accept the challenge of creating something that will live online. (Interview, December 2024)</p>
</blockquote>
<p>In fact, much of Triple Canopy's mission to &quot;slow down the Internet&quot; is through long, deep, and offline networks. As the organization moved to remote work, Triple Canopy offered its office space for free use as a studio for artists including Jeremy. Jeremy was given only a single task in exchange: watering a GMO pine created by the artist duo Goldin and Senneby, which is discussed in their <a href="https://canopycanopycanopy.com/contents/crying-pine-tree?q=crying%20pine%20tree">online articles</a>. The Crying Pine Tree still lives offline, and Jeremy's care for it exemplifies the long-form, long-term conversations that take place in the background through the magazine's existence between artists and collaborators.</p>
<p>Baptise's relationship with Triple Canopy has also engaged in an offline network with other nonprofits. Jeremy's relationship with Triple Canopy connected them to curators at <a href="https://thekitchen.org/on-view/the-woodshed-black-backstage/">the Kitchen</a>, where they then assembled a daylong event incorporating African disaporic poets and musicians, bringing a further network of artists together. This growth of conversations is a large part of Jeremy's process, thinking of &quot;connection rather than just collaboration: extended conversations that [...] have continued to now. It's not making a thing together but being in deep thought together.&quot;</p>
<script type="application/javascript" src="../javascripts/application.js"></script><script type="application/javascript">window.bber = window.bber || {}; window.bber.env = 'reader';</script></body></html>